So let's make sure we can add our user I.D. to outgoing chat messages here.
It's not too hard because thankfully we get that firebase off object now to utilize it, you need to
make sure that you are importing the firebase off dart file from the firebase off package.
And with that, you can tap into firebase off.
So you can use this object here, their access to act, for instance.
And on that instance, you'll find a current user method.
This gives you access to the currently logged in user and that will that include data like the user
I.D.?
Now, current user actually gives us a future which will eventually resolve to our current firebase
user.
So therefore, here I'll add async so that I can await here and get access to the user like this.
So then this line will only execute once we got the user.
Now we can utilize that user and said user ID equal to user dot uid there is a you ID field on that
user object which holds our current ID and with that we can clearly map this chat message to this user.
Now, of course, the existing chat messages here don't have that solid manually go there and add a
new field to each message where I basically said.
The user ID.
Equal to some dummy ID like a which of course, is not my user I.D., but that's fine, these messages
simply aren't by me.
So let's make sure we add all those fields here.
And once we did that, we can go back and make sure that we render the message differently, depending
on whether this is us or not.
So in a message bubble widget, we can add a second property, a boolean maybe is me, which I also
want to get from outside.
So I also expect to get a value for is me through the constructor of message bubble.
Hence you can go to the place where we create message bubble, which is the message to start fail.
And besides passing the text, we now also have to pass Chet Dock's for the current index and then access
user ID.
User ID now is a field we have in every message.
We have the idea of the user who wrote this message so we can access it here.
Now, of course we don't want to forward the user I.D. though.
Message Bubble instead wants to know whether this is us or not.
And this is just a string, not a boolean.
So to find out whether that's us or not, we all need to current idea of the locked in user here in
this line so that we can compare the idea of the current locked in user with the idea of this message.
Now, there are various ways of retrieving that, a very elegant way, in my opinion, is that we actually
wrap list view builder.
With a number of widget, which is now the future builder widget, now the future builder is a bit like
the stream builder, the differences that a future builder wants a future and it calls its builder method.
As soon as the future resolves, as soon as the future is done.
Hence, we add a future argument and then a builder argument.
And the builder argument wants a function which receives the context and then also the future snapshot.
And then we should return a widget.
Now, the future I want to set up here is firebase off.
And for Dad, you need to make sure that you do import the firebase off package and firebase off darte
file here, firebase off dot instant's and then call current user, as I explained a second ago.
This gives us a future.
Now, when this future resolves, this builder will execute and it will well build this list view.
Now, actually, I don't always want to build that list view, so I'll wrap the list U builder here
with curly braces and add a semicolon here because I want to check what's in the future.
Snapshot if you if future snapshot connection state is equal to Conexion state waiting.
We don't have information about the user yet.
In this case, I'll return a center widget where I have a circular progress indicator.
A bit like I have it up there, and yes, you could therefore, of course, create one widget which
you reuse here or a builder method.
I'll simply repeat some code here, so that's one check we could also check.
If we maybe don't have data, so if that is wrong, but if that is the case, if we don't have a current
user, we shouldn't be on the chat screen anyways because of the logic in the main dart file.
We should be seeing the off screen in that case.
So there shouldn't be a need to really check for that.
Hence, here, at this point, we should indeed have a user and we can then return to this view builder
here and there, we now get access to the future snapshot, which since we are basing this on the current
user future in the end, just gives us access to the data off the current user.
So then here we can compare if the user ID of that.
Data we got from our messages collection is that is equal to future snapshot dot data dot uid future
snapshot dot data is the current user object and that has a UID property, as you saw in the new message
widget there.
We also access user ID on the data returned by current user and we're doing the same here.
Now, there's one thing I'm not too happy about, I have my future builder here instead of that stream
builder, which means for every new message we got on the back end, I would fetch my data for the current
user again and again.
And that is a bit redundant, creating that new future and waiting for it to resolve on every new message
that a cent doesn't sound that great.
That's all restructured is a bit.
And I'll grab this code here, the future builder code and move that up and actually return this year
at the very beginning.
And then.
Here instead of the builder method of the future builder, I will.
Check if the futures snapshot connection status waiting, so let's add this here.
And if it's not waiting, I'll return to Stream Builder.
And down there.
We returned a list, you a builder again, but now that's instead of the stream builder, so I simply
swapped Stream Builder and future builder to make sure that we don't create a new future just because
something changed in our stream of data, which is coming from the fire story collection.
And with that, we should be fine, though, and the rest works as it should, and now we're forwarding
information, whatever that messages from us to the chat or to the message bubble widget.
So in the message bubble widget, we can now use this information which is stored in This is my property.
For example, on the color of this container, we can check if Isme is true and if it is, I don't want
to use the exact color, but instead, let's say then I just want to use colors gray and there we can
actually use this notation to use a specific shade of gray.
So our own messages will be great and the messages of our users will be purple or we'll use that accent
color simply.
And for the text color, we should do something similar if it's us, I don't want to use the color that
stands out against the accent color, but instead I'll use colors black, which stands out against a
great and otherwise I'll use the accent.
Color, contrast color.
We can also work on the border radius a bit.
And not set all borders to be rounded corners, but instead with border radius only, we can target
specific borders.
And let's say we always want the top left border to be circular.
So to be rounded, we can target top left then and use radius, not circular, to set the radius of
the top left corner to 12, and we'll do the same for the top right corner.
But that's not important.
I will do different things for the bottom corners.
Let's say the bottom left corner should only be round it if it's not us, because I also want to move
messages to the left and to the right based on whether they're from us or not.
So I'll set bottom left.
Equal to a check where a check if it's not us.
So the exclamation mark matters.
If it's not me and if it's not me, then I'll set the.
Radius to zero, and otherwise, I'll set the radius here.
To 12, so only if it's us, the bottom left corner will be rounded.
And I'll do the opposite for the bottom right corner if it's us all set the radius here.
Two zero.
And otherwise.
To 12.
Now, as a result, the corners of this container will be round at differently based on whether it's
a message from us or not.
And this matters because on the roll, we can now say that the main axis alignment to control where
the message is rendered, if it's on the left or on the right, by all checking for Isme and if it's
us, let's say we want to move the message to the right.
We can do this by setting the main axis alignment to end then or if it's not us, we set the main axis
alignment to start and therefore messages should now be rendered on different sides of the checklist
if we save all of that.
And reload.
This looks good because these are messages not sent by us.
But if I now send a message by me, so if I now send a new message, you see it's on the right, it's
gray, and we also have these different rounded corners.
So that looks pretty neat.
Now, there is one thing I want to improve to ensure that this always is rendered in an efficient way.
Let's use some keys.
You learned that when you were working with lists of data, there can be issues with flutter, updating
your widgets and to ensure that Flutter is always able to efficiently update data and lists or widgets
and lists, let's go to the message bubble widget, which is the widget we repeat in our list here.
And let's add a key there, let's accept a key there, accepting a Kei's easy, we add a new property,
which is of type key, and we name it key.
And we simply didn't have a named.
Argument here in the constructor where we point at Starkie.
Now in messages Stoddart, we can now simply set this key here by targeting this newly added named argument
and now we need a unique key we can created with the value key and use some unique value.
And every message here has a unique value.
It has a unique document ID so we can reach out to Chet Docs and for to give an index access document
ID written like this on this document, every document will have an ID which can be accessed through
this field.
Now we won't see a difference here, but behind the scenes, this ensures that Flutter will always be
able to efficiently render and update this list.
It might not need that.
It might be able to efficiently update this list even without the key, but it certainly also won't
hurt.